# CS340ClientServerDevelopment
**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**
Writing programs in a modular fashion helps in all these area. Keeping each function separated by how it is supposed to behave within the program keep the code clean, organized, and readable, adapable and maintainable. Working in this way would allow the program to be reused in the future by another business for example to use the CRUD functions with small changes withine the code to work for their databases. 

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**
I start by trying to map out what the program is intended to be used for. I use the rubric to create a UML or pseudocode to get me started and keep me on track during the process. I have learned to create a small amount of code, stop, and test the program. This has saved me so much time when trying to figure out errors because I'm only looking at one chunk at a time. I learned a lot about MongoDB and how to work within the system to make adjustments, search, and order the results within a database. This will be helpful in the future for clients who need a database created and how to use that information to create a functional user friendly dashboard. 

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**
Computer scientists use their extensive knowledge and experience to develop software, utilize data, ensure information in transferred or used securely/safely, and create solutions for their organization or client. Problem-solving and troubleshooting is also a vital part of a computer scientists' job, the need to figure out ways to deliver a program to their clients that is functional, maintainable, readable, and adaptable. The work I did for this type of project would help a company manage their databases with a user-friendly application. They will be able to create a new document and add it to their collection, search and read existing documents, update the information within the available database, and delete documents from the collection. 
